so you have to deliver a business
presentation and you've never done it
before so you're wondering how do I get
started or maybe you have delivered a
business presentation before but it
didn't go over so well and so you're
watching this video to hopefully get a
few tips so you can crush it on the next
attempt whatever has brought you here to
this video I want to thank you for
coming my passion is impactful
communication my name is Wade Patterson
consider subscribing to my channel
because I put out a lot of content to
help make you ultimately a better
Communicator the first thing that's
incredibly important to consider when
building a business presentation is that
you need to know your content if you're
talking to an audience and it's about a
subject matter that you know very little
about your audience is going to see
right through you long gone are the days
where we can BS through content I mean
people have devices in their hands where
they can fact check you on the spot and
so you can't just Wing something or make
it up if you are delivering a business
presentation and the people in the
audience have given their time and
attention to learn from you you really
need to do your research you need to be
prepared and you need to be confident
about what it is that you're presenting
to those individuals now I understand
that sometimes you may not be a complete
subject
expert in that particular field a good
example of this is somebody who's
starting a new job and part of their new
career is that they have to deliver
presentations but they've only been on
the job for about a month and they're
still learning what I would say for this
is one to be transparent with the
audience don't try to make them believe
that you've been doing this for decades
and decades you can be transparent about
the fact that this is a new role but
what I would do is I would bring in your
other experience that you have because
clearly if you're giving this
presentation your boss or supervisor has
put you there for a reason they believe
that you have the skill set to deliver
so perhaps you have a background with
another company that includes a lot of
relevant experience to this presentation
with the new company so you can lean on
that you can leverage be transparent
with the audience and they can still get
value on whatever you're presenting my
second tip for building a great
presentation is to make it interesting
so often I sit through business
presentations that are incredibly boring
people are talking about quarterly
numbers whether they've hit targets
there's a bunch of graphs there's a
bunch of text on the screen and it's
really hard to stay focus because it's
so dry what you need to remember is
whether these people are business
professionals or not they're still
people and by sprinkling in some
anecdotes or great stories that don't
Veer too far off topic but are still
relevant and add a little bit of color
to the presentation not only is that
good because you will somewhat entertain
the audience but you'll actually help
them remember those things you are
trying to teach them because if you can
say something memorable or make them
laugh or catch their attention
they're going to associate the stats or
the facts or whatever it is that you're
delivering from the business side they
will associate it with that story or
that anecdote and you'll actually do a
more effective job communicating the
information one of my favorite people
who does this really effectively is an
economist here in Canada his name is
Benjamin tall and he gives these
economic outlooks which for some people
could be very very dry I mean the
information at the surface level is very
dry but he every one to two to 3 minutes
has some sort of joke or quick story and
it keeps the audience engaged in that
steady Cascade of laugh throughout means
that he can talk about economics for an
hour and he will never lose the
attention of his audience by having this
skill set you're going to enjoy the
process of giving these presentations
even more but you will also do a better
job of it because your audience will be
engaged and they'll retain the
information if you were delivering a
business presentation your audience
should not have to squint to see what
you have written on the slide deck
assuming you're using slides this is
another common common mistake that I see
in business related presentations is
that the speaker tries to cram so much
information onto those slides which I
don't think is doing any favors to the
audience you want them listening to you
the speaker if you're delivering the
information you don't want them
distracted trying to read all of the
information on the screen and you the
speaker shouldn't have all the
information on the slides because you
shouldn't be reading off of the slide
the slid purpose should be a word or a
couple of words that resemble the theme
of what you're talking about and perhaps
an image that triggers your memory of
what you should be talking about next or
giving the audience a visual example of
what you're talking about my biggest tip
here is to try to reduce those number of
words to five or less per slide I know
that might sound crazy and of course
there's some exceptions if you're
sharing a quote for example it's
probably more than five words but in
most slides try to use five words or
less and big images or videos even that
capture the audience's attention one of
the biggest tips I talk about in pretty
much every video I put out and it's no
exception for a business presentation is
to practice practice your speech many
times until you are very comfortable and
confident with the delivery there are
people out there who will have you
believe that winging it is a real
possibility that you can just get up in
front of a crowd and off the cuff
deliver a speech and blow the audience
away and absolutely crush it and sure
that is possible but for 99% % of people
it's not something that's realistic the
truth is almost every speaker could
benefit from practicing their speech
more and by having this practice and
this repetition you're taking the guess
work out of it so that when you're
delivering that speech you're not
panicked on stage trying to remember
what it is that you were going to talk
about because you've done this before
many times and if you do lose your place
you're less likely to panic because a
quick look at the slide or a quick check
of your notes if you do have a few notes
will remind you it will get you back on
track but I promise you the likelihood
of freezing on stage is so much higher
when you've not practiced your speech so
especially if you're a new speaker you
need to practice for a business
presentation another essential with any
speech that is no different for a
business presentation is having some
form of structure so often these
business speeches are education speeches
and a good structure to have like any
speech is a beginning a middle and an
end and the beginning should give some
reference point for the information
you're going to share with the audience
so if you're going to give the top 10
reasons that 2024 is going to be your
best year ever that is a great title for
the speech and it gives the audience
right off the bat that information of
okay I know as the speech goes along
there's going to be 10 total tips so
it's easy for them to follow along with
where you're going especially as you
deliver each tip if you keep them
numbered as well then the middle or the
body of the speech you actually go
through the details of those tips and
the
conclusion you're going to recap or sum
up as a reminder here's the 10 tips and
you can kind of quick rapid fire them
off with a couple key points and now
it's had that smooth flow and it's an
easy thing for the audience to remember
and then later on when they're thinking
about your speech it's like oh yeah they
he gave 10 tips and then they can
probably remember several of those tips
that you gave another style of speech
structure that can work is the idea of a
speech that comes full circle now this
type of speech is a little bit more on
the creative side and is often used for
personal stories but it also can work in
a business presentation especially if
you're of that creative mind and you
don't mind taking a little bit of a risk
an example of how this could work and
bear with me because this might seem
like a bit of an extreme example but
let's say you have a story about when
you were in 10th Grade and you were
mowing your lawn and let's say you went
on into a career with Honda building the
world's greatest lawnmowers so you could
start your speech with this story of
being the young kid pushing this
lawnmower up and down your yard and
perhaps the painful process that it was
the hard work the sweat that experience
so you kind of put this picture in your
audience's mind then you transition into
why you're there talking about Honda's
newest products talking about the fact
that these lawnmowers are incredible and
that they'll get the job done and you
barely have to push them they are
self-propelled and you're talking about
the newest Innovations and what the
company has projected for next year for
the future of lawnmowers again I don't
know anything about lawnmowers this is
an obscure example but then what you can
do is at the end of your speech you can
come back all the way full circle to
that original story and say something
like if I could only tell my 16-year-old
self about where the future of
lawnmowers was going he wouldn't have
believed it he would have been so
excited he would have given anything to
have one of these lawnmowers who knows
the way you make it come full circle but
that's a way where you're telling a
personal story you're capturing the
audience's attention because they're
wondering well what does this have to do
with the presentation you transition it
smoothly you give them the information
and then you make it all come back
nicely you tie a bow on it friends that
is one of the best styles of speeches in
my opinion a full circle speech and if
you can incorporate it in a business
presentation it's powerful stuff my
final tip for creating a great business
presentation and this may vary depending
on the context but I think business
presentations more than many other
speeches you want to leave time for
questions for the audience now this is
sometimes easier said than done because
the timing of a speech can be a little
bit tricky and what I find for myself
personally is that I speak quicker when
I'm standing on stage than I do when I'm
practicing my speech and what I've made
the mistake of before is if I have an
hour presentation and and I want to
leave 10 minutes for questions I
practice my speech until I get it to the
50 minute Mark but what I've had happen
is when I get on stage and I start
delivering I speak faster sometimes even
though it's something I'm working on I'm
trying to slow it down but sometimes I
naturally speak faster and I get through
the material quicker and now there may
be 20 minutes left for questions instead
of the 10 minutes I anticipated so you
want to do some trial and air to make
sure that you're not leaving too much
time for questions cuz if you're too far
short the audience is going to wonder
why you finish so early but you do want
to leave about 10 minutes five or 10
minutes for questions for the audience
because at the end of the day that's one
of the biggest value opportunities of
hearing someone speak in person is the
opportunity to ask that individual
questions and you want to grant that to
your audience and how do you prepare for
those questions that may come well you
can deliver the speech to a colleague or
to a friend or family member and have
them or task them with asking you some
questions about the content you've just
delivered and that will give you a bit
of an idea of how to speak on the spot
think very quickly somebody asks you a
question you've got to think on your
feet and if you ever get a question from
the audience while delivering a business
presentation that is way over your head
and you don't know the answer again
going back to the first tip don't try to
BS them don't try to make something up
you can be honest you can say hey you
know what that's a great question I'm
actually not 100% sure but let's link up
after this because I'm going to find out
and I'm going to get back to you
perfectly acceptable answer sometimes if
it's a smaller group you can ask other
audience members if they happen to know
the answer and you can kind of
collaborate as a group but that ability
to allow the audience to ask questions
and then to do a good job responding is
essential to
basically crushing your business
presentation I hope that this video on
how to create a great business
presentation was helpful for you if you
have any questions fire them down in the
comments below I do my best to respond
to people who have questions in my
videos otherwise thank you so much for
taking the time to watch this video and
please subscribe to my channel it's
people like you who subscribe turn on
notifications that help me grow this
thing and inspire me to keep creating
this type of video content so thank you
again so much for watching and I'll
catch you on the next video people are
more scared of public speaking than they
are of
dying is it just me or is that wrong hey
everyone my name is Wade Patterson and I
am passionate about impactful
communication my YouTube channel has
helped hundreds of thousands of people
improve their public speaking skills and
I am thrilled to release my first ever
course which has taken my decade of
learning learning about how to become a
better public speaker and boiled it down
to this theme of mastering the five
Essentials of public speaking I know for
a fact that if you can dial in these
five elements and perfect them you are
going to be a phenomenal public speaker
Head and Shoulders Above the Rest just
by being aware of these things by taking
the time to digest the information in
this course practice it and then put it
to action through your speeches you you
are going to become a better public
speaker as a bonus in this course I sit
down with the world's greatest freestyle
rapper Harry Mac and one of the greatest
keynote speakers in the world Sean kugo
and I get their tips firsthand of what
makes them incredible at what they do if
you agree that public speaking
definitely should not be scarier than
dying sign up for my course you won't
regret it